---
title: "Now is the Time for Democrats to Embrace Democratic Socialism"
date: 2026-04-03
draft: false
hideToc: true
author: "Nicholas T."
---

In the rise of Donald Trump and authoritarianism, the Democratic Party has stood feckless in the face of right-wing extremism. Democratic leadership has left an ideological void in the party platform, leaving voters clueless about what the party stands for. The failure by DNC leadership to articulate a clear, positive, and progressive vision for working-class Americans created the levers for Trump to secure power in 2024. Nevertheless, across the country, voters are starting to wake up. They are waking up to not only the blatant abuses of power led by an incompetent Trump Administration, but also to the contradictions of our entire political and economic system and how it works to serve an unaccountable billionaire class. Working Americans are fed up. They are demanding an end to the systemic greed in our politics. We live in an unprecedented moment of authoritarianism and oligarchy. However, like any other struggle, it must be fought against and won. Socialists should capitalize on this incredible opportunity and run candidates everywhere throughout this country.

Throughout the era of Trumpism, the Republican Party has never worried about “moderating” its positions regarding issues foreign or domestic. Instead, they’ve embraced the chaos, leading with violence and cruelty as a defining core of their platform. This begs the question, why must we seek to meet extremists in the “middle” to win elections? The answer is shocking; we don’t. It is time to fight fire with fire. Appealing to the “mythical moderate” has never adequately addressed the underlying contradictions in how American politics operate, nor will it. Again and again, the establishment has lectured progressives on the need to moderate their positions on key issues to win elections. Yet, what they fail to see is that we are living in a moment of economic populism, and that the era of technocratic neoliberalism and moderation is over.

In 2025, New York City stunned the world. Democratic Socialist Zohran Mamdani won the NYC mayoral election in an unprecedented upset, handily defeating a billionaire-backed former governor, as well as an entire political establishment working against him. When Zohran launched his campaign with only 1% in the polls, nearly nobody knew his name. Now, with a mandate for his agenda, he is the most beloved politician in New York state, leading the playbook for progressives across this country to finally build real power for working people. As many paint a revisionist history for his political success, this victory was only possible, not despite his progressive views, but because of them. He continues to defy the odds, delivering on his affordability agenda, all while reducing the NYC deficit. But it doesn't end with Mamdani. Progressives all across this country are running for office and defying expectations. Similar to Mamdani, Katie Wilson, a fellow democratic socialist, won the Seattle Mayoral race, beating incumbent Bruce Harrell.

I say all of this to make clear that we can redefine what's politically possible and build a better world. Long are the days of billionaire-approved half measures; If the Democratic Party is to defeat Trumpism, it must lead with a transformative vision for this country and truly deliver on behalf of the working class. It is only when we center working people in our politics that tangible results can materialize. It may seem at times that the oligarchs have won. And it’s understandable. Never in the history of this country have we seen such enormous wealth inequality at a time when ordinary Americans struggle to afford essentials. But to give in to doomerism is to let the oligarchs win. It has never been more important to organize for social and economic justice, which is exactly why we must. Join a local mutual aid group. Help organize your workplace, your neighborhood. Join a protest. Use your voice. There is nothing we can't achieve when we, working people, organize and fight for the future we deserve.

Solidarity, Nicholas.
